# Cryptanalysis historical ciphers

Bletchley Park is a python implementation of an encrypting/decrypting/cracking library for historical ciphers like Caesar shift cipher, substitution cipher, Vigenère cipher and transposition cipher. Only czech language is supported right now.

[Why Bletchley Park?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bletchley_Park) It's the place where ciphers and codes of several Axis countries were decrypted, most importantly the ciphers generated by the German Enigma and Lorenz machines.

## Installation

You will need Python 2.7. Installation using git:

	$ git clone git@github.com:havrlant/bletchley-park.git
	$ cd bletchley-park
	$ sudo python setup.py install
	$ bletchleypark -h

Or simply download the zip file instead cloning from GitHub.

## Usage

See `bletchleypark -h`. Supported ciphers are: 

- `caesar` for Caesar/Shift cipher. Key has to be only one letter.
- `vig` for Vigenère cipher. Key can be arbitrary word, i.e. `[a-b]+`.  
- `subs` for Substitution cipher; only encrypt/decrypt methods, no cracking method yet. Key has to be permutation of alphabet, for example camntwqzipryofxkhdlusbevjg.
- `trans` for Transposition cipher. Key can be arbitrary word, i.e. `[a-b]+`.

## Examples
	
If you want to encrypt a text "Hello World" using Caesar (Shift) cipher and the "b" key:

	$ bletchleypark -t "Hello World" -e caesar -k b
	ifmmpxpsme

To decrypt back to "Hello World" use:

	$ bletchleypark -t "ifmmpxpsme" -d caesar -k b
	helloworld

If you want to crack a text "..." which was encrypted by Vigenère cipher:

	$ bletchleypark -c vig -t "..."

Or you can always use `-i file` option instead of `-t`. The file must be in utf-8. Use `--charset` option otherwise:

	$ bletchleypark -c vig -i path/to/file.txt --charset cp1250